Document creating skills and workflows from Agent Chat (#7539)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/ai-features/agent-builder/chat.md

:width: 650px
:::

> ## Create skills and workflows directly from chat [create-skills-and-workflows-directly-from-chat]

Author: ```suggestion
## Create skills and workflows in chat [create-skills-and-workflows-directly-from-chat]
```

:width: 650px
:::

## Create skills and workflows in chat [create-skills-and-workflows-directly-from-chat]

```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.5+
serverless: ga
```

In addition to answering questions and analyzing data, agents can help you create reusable skills and Elastic Workflows without leaving the conversation. Describe what you want to build in natural language:

- **Skills**: For example, "Create a skill that triages production alerts using our incident runbook."
- **Workflows**: For example, "Create a workflow that checks for failed payments every five minutes and sends a Slack notification."

Creating a resource from chat is a [human-in-the-loop](#human-in-the-loop-prompts) process:

1. The agent gathers the requirements from your request. If important information is missing or ambiguous, it pauses to ask [clarifying questions](#answer-a-clarifying-question).
2. The agent generates a draft and presents it in the conversation. You can review the configuration and ask for changes in natural language.

> 3. When the draft is ready, use the action on the preview to confirm creation. The resource is not created until you explicitly confirm the change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. When the draft is ready, confirm creation from the preview:
   - For skills, select **Create skill**.
   - For workflows, select **Preview**, review the definition, then select **Save**.
The resource is not created until you complete this step.
```

Verified on a live cluster: workflow creation is draft → Preview → Save (not Confirm/Deny).

Author: Addressed in d054a9824. The workflow flow now documents Preview, Save, and Override, and the new screenshot shows the Preview action. Thanks!
